So our new demonstration will focus on working with Arquillian into our
project and moving our integration tests to Arquillian.
Of course,
we'll make sure the tested functionality is the same and we'll
investigate the code coverage as usually.
Into the flightWithPassengersTest,
we have this flight variable and we'll annotate it with inject.
This is a Java Enterprise edition annotation.
This means that the annotated field will be injected by the
container in order to be used into the tests.
If we run the test now, it is red and we are going to get this error.
Unsatisfied dependencies for type flight with qualifiers default.
What does it mean?
It means that the container is trying to inject the dependency,
but it is unsatisified.
Why?
This happens because the Flight class provides only this
constructor and it has no default constructor to be used by the
container for the creation of the object.
The container design not know how to invoke the constructor with parameters
and which parameters and which parameters to pass to it.
What is the solution in this case?
Java Enterprise edition offers the producer methods,
methods designed to inject objects that require custom initialization.
We are going to create a new package and we'll name it producers.
Here, we are going to create a new producer class.
We'll name it FlightProducer and we'll provide a producer method to it.
This method will be named createFlight and it is simply
invoking FlightBuilderUtil.buildFlightFromCsv.
And as we were saying,
such a method can be used to inject objects that require
custom initialization and this is our case.
We are injecting a flight configured based on the csv file.
We have annotated this method with producers,
which is also a Java Enterprise edition annotation and the container will
automatically invoke this method to create the configure flight.
Then the container will inject this one into the flight field,
annotate it with inject.
We also need to insert this FlightProducer into the ShrinkWrap archive.
If we run the test now, it will be green.
The container is able to inject the correctly configured flight.
We are not yet testing anything here, but it is time to do it.
So we are going to move the tests that are working with both
passenger and flight into this new class,
they represent the integration tests.
Of course, we are going to remove this test method.
It was here just for our convenience because an Arquillian test does not
execute without at least one test annotated method.
This test sellTicket method will be removed from here and it will
be introduced into FlightWithPassengersTest.
The flight is no longer created inside the test,
it is injected by the container.
We eliminate testAddRemovePassengers from here and it will
arrive here among the integration tests.
TestSetInvalidPlaces will be removed from here and
inserted into FlightWithPassengersTest.
And the last test that was working with both passenger and flight,
TestSetValidPlaces,
will be removed from the FlightTest class and we'll
introduce it into FlightWithPassengersTest.
What must be remarked about these methods?
They are all annotated with the JUnit for test annotation and we are using
the JUnit for assertEquals and assertThrows methods.
We have removed the programmatic creation of the flight as it is injected by
the producer and it makes sense to have them here into this class as they
test integration between flight and passenger.
Let's run all the tests.
They are all green,
so we have successfully used Arquillian for the integration
testing between flight and passenger.
Let's have a look at the code coverage.
We run mvn test from the command prompt.
Into the index.html file,
we'll be able to take a look at the code coverage and surprise,
it is only 65%.
Have we missed anything?
Let's take a closer look.
The flight class is tested only 71%.
A few methods like takeOff, land,
and others that we are testing at the unit level are not covered at all.
The Passenger class is tested only 56%.
A few methods like setIdentifier, setCountryCode,
and others that we're testing at the unit level are not covered at all.
Why did this happen?
If we take a closer look here, we see that only four tests have been run.
They all belong to the FlightWithPassengersTest class.
The previous unit tests, flight tests,
and passengers test haven't been run any longer.
Why?
Because as we are saying, Arquillian is not well-integrated with JUnit5.
So what's to be done now?
Anything we can do?
Fortunately, we do have some work-a-round.
IntelliJ provides the opportunity to run the tests
with coverage from inside the IDE.
We see that they are separated on JUnit Jupiter tests.
These are the unit tests using the new JUnit5 framework and JUnit Vintage tests,
the integration test that use JUnit4.
And the good news for us is that we have kept our
code coverage at the level of 100%.
This module has focused on introducing integration
testing and adopting it into our project.
We have explained the motivation for the integration testing.
We have looked at the types and approaches and we have extended
the flights management application by revealing integration
problems and by building integration tests.
We have encountered the Arquillian testing framework,
and we have explained how to adopt the integration testing with Arquillian.
We are now prepared for the next step, system testing,
where we will look at some complete and integrated software. See you in the next module.